Hey guys welcome back to the course so in this lecture we're going to talk a little bit about do you
build something yourself or do you contract it out.
You find someone else to do it for you.
Now if you are not a programmer you need to skip this lecture.
This is not going to help you at all.
This one is for you guys out there who already know how to program and are coming at this from the angle
of you already freelance or you're interested in freelancing or you're interested in growing an actual
business around your freelance business.
So you're probably wondering yourself so do I just build this myself and you after all do I know the
most about yourself.
You know exactly what you're capable of.
So there's no real like chance for a miscommunication.
Now this is obviously up to every single person.
All you guys want to keep this small and you want to do all of your own projects that's perfectly fine.
My advice though is that if you want to become efficient and you want to grow this at all or just maintain
a much higher quality of life I strongly suggest that you do not program 100 percent of the time.
In fact it's of my opinion that you can't run a web development business if you're the only person doing
the work all the time.
So if you spend 100 percent of your time programming the sites and applications.
Who is going to be bringing in the new projects when your projects are over.
What do you do now.
Do you literally just have a period of time where you're just searching for the next contract.
You have to understand that contract.
In general it's usually like a burst of work and then you have maintenance work and then you have add
ons but those come at a much slower frequency and the amount of work is considerably smaller than the
first chunk of actual work on the project.
So let's accept the fact that you're going to have at least a smidge of marketing and sales that you're
going to have to do and perhaps it's only at the beginning.
So now how much marketing are you having to do.
Is it 10 percent of your time 20 percent or time 50 percent of your time let's say you spend 30 percent
of your time finding contracts and 70 percent of your time working on those contracts.
Do you feel comfortable being the lead developer or the person who's controls the entire project.
If you can only spend 70 percent of your time on that project what if it's more like 50 percent.
Do you really wanna spend 50 percent of your time on that project.
Now the reason why development firms are so successful when they're founded by someone who is a programmer
someone who is technical is because your expertise and your experience is going to allow you to have
critical insights and make much better project decisions during a project.
Now a non developer is not going to have that same advantage that you have now.
While you might be a fantastic developer now that you're trying to build a business around this you
need to understand that what you bring to the business might not necessarily be your programming skill.
By far with successful development companies the programmer or the original founder.
Their best kind of role is oversight.
Now you can still program on a day to day basis if that's the way you want to go but realistically you're
going to need to lay off just a little bit.
You're a much more useful to your project when you're inserting your little bits of brilliance directly
to a contractor or through management and basic project oversight.
If you listen to my previous lecture when we talked about subcontracting strategy you know that you
are probably the magic combination that can use low cost contractors to build high quality products.
And honestly if you wanted to tackle higher quality products more kind of premium side applications
you could work with higher paid contractors as well and then convert them into a really high high quality
of product.
However in my opinion since you're inclined to be technical it might be best for you to focus on low
cost options.
So just be aware if you're trying to build a successful development business and you're trying to grow
it whether that's growth in terms of better projects more projects or maybe you just want to get to
a position where you're more choosy about the projects you take in you're still going to need to be
very thoughtful about how you apply your time.
You're in the best position to help the project but if you're the person in the trenches doing the programming
every single day you're not going to benefit from the synergies of bringing in someone else to collaborate
with you.
So you're more than welcome to try whatever you want.
You can use this course in many different ways.
There are lots of ways that could help you just as an individual freelancer expand your clientele base
expand your business base.
But if you really want to be successful at this you really want to see the truth vantages of turning
your freelance operation into a legitimate business.
You need to consider taking time off of programming focusing on oversight and then focusing on delivering
value through that management.
Okay guys we're almost through the Getting midsections we only have a couple more lectures where we
talk about kind of planning and getting your head around what you're going to do and how you're going
to tackle this next section we're actually going to get into it.
OK guys.
Any questions just post in the group discussion.